>> Kyle Simpson: Without any further ado
I probably should have started off with
this but, I'm Kyle Simpson,
getify, known as getify online,
you can follow me on Twitter if you're
into that whole online stalking thing.
Getify.me lists all
the different places online.
Essentially I'm getify everywhere,
from Gmail,
to everything else that you can imagine.
If there isn't a getify registered
somewhere then that site just
doesn't matter.
I'm kidding of course.
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: But
all the places that I can be found,
I can be found under Getify.
I will mention a couple of things.
So, I said earlier that I teach for
a living and
that means that I'm available for
teaching.
If you have an event, if you have company,
an organization, a club,
that would like to bring me in to teach
something related to JavaScript, related
to the language itself, I'd love to do
that, so please feel free to reach out.
I'm always looking for
more opportunities to spread that.
I'm sort of a, so my self title,
since I'm self employed,
my own made up title is
Open Web Evangelist.
That's one of the best parts about being
self employed is that you get to make up
your own title, and it can be as
fluffy as you want it to sound.
So open web evangelist,
I just made up, and
essentially what that is
intended to imply is that my goal
is to evangelize the open web platform
to as many people as possible.
And by evangelizing, that means
both inspiring and teaching, and
those goes hand-in-hand.
I hope through the teaching it inspires
you to learn more and do more with the web
platform, and so those are sort of two
sides of that same coin, if you will.
So open web platform and any of its
associated technologies with a particular
focus on JavaScript is what I spend
most of my time trying to figure out.
And I will fully disclose,
that even with all of my experience,
I don't know JavaScript.
And that's why I called that book series
that we'll talk about in a moment,
I called it You Don't Know JS,
because I think all of us are in various
states of coming to terms with what we
don't know, trying to figure
out what we need to learn next.
So it's an ongoing process rather
than a fixed point in time.
So, in addition to being in classrooms and
teaching corporate workshops or
speaking at conferences of whatever, I do
a fair amount of open source development.
Most of my open source development these
days is designed to aid in my teaching but
I'll just quickly highlight
a couple of projects.
So you can get a sense of
the code that I try to write, and
I open-source pretty much
all the code that I write.
So LABjs is a script loader,
dynamic script loader for
performance optimization.
Purpose is it's just designed to replace
the script tag with something that
will load it more performantly and give
you more control over the loading profile.
A lot of people think that script
loading is sort of a dead or
dying sort of technology.
I predict that there are changes that
are happening with the way our industry
works right now.
Script loaders are gonna
have a renaissance,
they're gonna make a comeback.
And I'd say within the next 12 to 18
months you're gonna see more attention
given to that topic than has been
given over the last several years.
LABjs has been around for
almost six years now, stable for four.
That's its most important feature is that
it hasn't changed cuz it hasn't needed to.
Although it will, if these changes
coming down the pike necessitate it.
And it's been battle tested on
the big sites like Twitter and
Vimeo and Zappos and so forth.
So you can know and
rely upon that technology.
Grips is a templating engine.
And actually the second half
of the second day, when we get
into shared JavaScript between client and
server, and talk about that, when we get
to that part of the course, we're
gonna talk slightly more about grips.
But, it's a templating designed to
approach this problem differently than
what I've seen almost every
other templating engine do,
cuz most fall into two extreme categories,
either it's all about no logic,
zero logic like mustache,
or it's all about a full programming
language inside of the templating engine.
And both of those have
significant drawbacks to them.
And so,
to try to address some of those drawbacks,
I tried to ask, I think, a better
set of questions about templating.
I don't propose that grips is the best
solution, that it's the right answer.
But I think it's the right set of
questions to be asking about what we
should expect from templating.
How we should organize our
approach to templating.
And I am approaching that not only from
the text and HTML sort of templating
world, but I'm also approaching CSS
pre-processing from the same perspective.
So there is CSS preprocessing
somewhat like less that's
built into that whole concept.
So if those are pain points
that you've ever dealt with,
you might check out grips.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Did you say you're gonna
discuss that tomorrow?
>> Kyle Simpson: We'll just
briefly talk about it,
cuz it is one of the technologies that
we'll use in the demo tomorrow here.
[COUGH]
So even if you look at it and
you hate the syntax or
the actual approach that I took, I think
those questions are the right questions.
How can we find the right balance
between those two extremes?
And finally asynquence, this won't be
something we cover in this course, but
I do have other courses that
cover asynchronous programming.
This is a little library that I built to
weave together lots of asynchronous flow.
Concerns, like promises, and generators,
and higher-level patterns like reactive
programming, and things like that,
they're all sort of lightly woven
into this little, a single library,
instead of having to get lots of
different libraries all paired together.
So that's just a quick summary
of some of the stuff I work on.
There's probably about two dozen
projects that I've gotten up on GitHub
in various states.
I do a lot of conference speaking as well,
so I'm not gonna talk at all
about these conferences.
But there's lots of videos, and
other things,
the slides are all up at my speaker deck.
There's also on my lanyard account,
there's lots of Links to videos and
audio recordings and things like
that from these conference talks.
So if you'd like to hear more about some
of the stuff that I've talked about at
conferences, there's probably two dozen
different talks that I've given over
the last six or seven years out there.
I've mentioned several times now, so
we'll specifically talk about
the You Don't Know JS book series.
If you go to YouDontKnowJS.com, it
redirects to the repo for the book series,
cuz I'm writing all of these books in the
open for free to freely read and access.
And they are also being
professionally edited and produced and
published through O'Reilly, so
you can purchase the e-book or
print book form of
the books if you prefer.
And I always appreciate that.
But I encourage you to check out
the content first to see if you like it.
It's a series of books,
six books in the series.
Five of them are done, four and
a half of them are on shelves.
So the up and going one,
the one that we're talking about,
will literally be on shelves
in the next few days.
It's already been off to the printers for
a couple weeks.
So five books done, the sixth book,
which is talking about ES6,
the new changes to the language and
beyond.
ES6 and Beyond is about 50 to 60% done.
Of course, you can see it online,
it's about 50, 60% done.
And I expect it to be on shelves,
my goal is to have that on shelves
around the middle of June, which coincides
with the final ratification vote for
approving ES6 from the Ecma committee.
So hopefully this book will
land at exactly that same
period of time on shelves.
So that's the book series,
the goal of this book series was
to try to attack this mindset.
And if you're just starting to learn,
please don't adopt this habit.
You will see lots of people in this
industry that take the habit that all I
need to do is learn just enough
to get this one feature down so
my boss is happy and
then I don't go any further.
And I know we can chuckle about and
say yes, but there is truth to this,
that in our part of this industry
that in the JavaScript world,
there is a lot of that
mindset that prevails.
In fact our industry rewards
that type of mindset.
Just learn enough about this
framework to get a feature done.
And that's when you get rewarded
by bigger and bigger projects, and
promotions at work, and better and
better job titles, and things like that.
And there isn't a built in reward for
truly learning the thing,
there's a built in reward for
applying the thing.
So my goal with the books,
with the trainings,
with everything I do basically as
a career, is to try to provide or
fill in that other side of the puzzle,
to provide deep learning.
That's what these books are about,
that's what the trainings are about.
So if you were try to compare, for
example, the You Don't Know JS book
series to something more well known
like Douglas Crockford's The Good Parts.
I would say,
essentially, by the way that's a great
book I'm not knocking the book at all.
We owe a lot of our industry to the fact
that that came out at a really critical
time when JavaScript could
have been forgotten.
And Doug Crockford's a big reason why
JavaScript survived and began to thrive.
So all due to credit to it, but
it also taught an entire generation, and
now we've got a second whole generation
of developers, at least, maybe more,
that have come along with
this perspective that
You only need to know a little
bit of language to be productive.
And my approach is the opposite.
You need to know all the language.
So, if you're looking for
comparison instead of The Good Parts,
You Don't Know JS is the opposite,
it doesn't mean it's the bad parts,
it's means it's all the parts.
Looking at all the parts
of Java Script and
making proper use of those
through real understanding.
Okay.